# ch03 - Immutability

Immutability 不可变性 (a key factor in functional programming)

> Elixir does it by producing a copy of the original, containing the new values. The original remains unchanged, and your operation will not affect any other code holding a reference to that original.

- [ch03 - Immutability](#ch03---immutability)
  - [Performance Implications of Immutability](#performance-implications-of-immutability)
    - [Copying Data](#copying-data)
    - [Garbage Collection](#garbage-collection)
  - [Coding with Immutable Data](#coding-with-immutable-data)

## Performance Implications of Immutability

### Copying Data

`[ head | tail ]` to build a new list.

the immutability makes list building quicker.

```text
iex> list1 = [ 3, 2, 1 ]
[3, 2, 1]
iex> list2 = [ 4 | list1 ]
[4, 3, 2, 1]
```

Elixir knows list1 will never change, so it simply constructs a new list with a head of `4` and a tail of `list1`.

Although common sense might dictate that all this copying of data is inefficient, under some circumstances data can be reused.

### Garbage Collection

People write Elixir code using lots and lots of processes, and each process has its own heap.

The data in your application is divvied up between these processes, so each individual heap is much, much smaller than would have been the case if all the data had been in a single heap.

As a result, garbage collection runs faster.

If a process terminates before its heap becomes full, all its data is discarded—no garbage collection is required.

## Coding with Immutable Data

In a functional language, we always transform data.

We never modify it in place.
